# ML Clustering

# OBJECTIVE

The code shared demonstrates the various clustering algorithms using Python. 

# DATASET USED

Please find the data used, uploaded to github along with the code.

# TOOLS

Python, Spark MLlib 

# TECHNIQUES

## Classification

### K-means
k-means is one of the most commonly used clustering algorithms that clusters the data points into a predefined number of clusters. The MLlib implementation includes a parallelized variant of the k-means++ method called kmeans||.

KMeans is implemented as an Estimator and generates a KMeansModel as the base model.

### Latent Dirichlet allocation (LDA)
LDA is implemented as an Estimator that supports both EMLDAOptimizer and OnlineLDAOptimizer, and generates a LDAModel as the base model. Expert users may cast a LDAModel generated by EMLDAOptimizer to a DistributedLDAModel if needed.

### Bisecting k-means
Bisecting k-means is a kind of hierarchical clustering using a divisive (or “top-down”) approach: all observations start in one cluster, and splits are performed recursively as one moves down the hierarchy.

Bisecting K-means can often be much faster than regular K-means, but it will generally produce a different clustering.

BisectingKMeans is implemented as an Estimator and generates a BisectingKMeansModel as the base model.

### Gaussian Mixture Model (GMM)
A Gaussian Mixture Model represents a composite distribution whereby points are drawn from one of k Gaussian sub-distributions, each with its own probability. The spark.ml implementation uses the expectation-maximization algorithm to induce the maximum-likelihood model given a set of samples.

GaussianMixture is implemented as an Estimator and generates a GaussianMixtureModel as the base model.

### Power Iteration Clustering (PIC)
Power Iteration Clustering (PIC) is a scalable graph clustering algorithm developed by Lin and Cohen. From the abstract: PIC finds a very low-dimensional embedding of a dataset using truncated power iteration on a normalized pair-wise similarity matrix of the data.
